Now you learn how you can build your app for ISIS.
What about Android.
Again and the official reaction of docs under a guides android.
You find instructions on how to publish your app to the Google Play store.
In the end you can just follow the instructions you find here.
It all starts with creating such a key store which I already mentioned in the Expo managed workflow
but there Expo did that for us on their servers.
Here we need to do that and we can do this instead of our project or on Windows as it says here.
Make sure to run this command while navigate it in this folder you can copy your key store into your
project thereafter or store it anywhere else.
You will need to have key store which is generated for signing your app and for signing updates to the
app.
So make sure you don't lose it.
Otherwise you'll not be able to well rebuild your app or update your app.
So here you can enter an arbitrary password what you want and she was and then some information about
you which technically could be wrong but which well should be correct kind of since this is your identifier
with instance since this is used for assigning your app in the end.
And once you entered all this and confirmed it and you chose your passwords this now creates this my
upload key key store file here and now you can use that to sign your application next you need to set
up some great all variables as you see here and for dad make sure you move the key storage of the Android
app folder.
So from this folder here move it up into Android and then into the app folder so that you file the stair
and then go to the cradled properties file the android graded properties file so here under Android
we have degraded properties file and in their
you can add these entries and as it says there replace the stars you with the password you chose for
the keys store.
Once you did that you can close that file.
You should go to the Android app build grateful files and not build great all here but in the app folder
and they de built cradle file and add this configuration in the Android node as you can see so you can
just copy this and then your search for the Android node which is this node
there you got the default concept what you should not touch.
But you got your signing config where you should in the end ad does release part.
So not the leads the debug part but ad does release part and then under Bill types release.
Add this line here.
So if we scroll down for a types release there we can add this line signing config release and now you
can generate your AP okay with these commands.
So by navigating into the Android folder and then by running this command let's do that.
Let's first of all navigate into the Android folder here with CDE Android and then run this greatly
w command.
And this should now build your app and sign it for production give you such a app bundle in the end
which you can then upload to the Google Play store.
So let's wait for that to finish and once this build succeeded you can actually take that app bundle
which you now find under app build generated
outputs bundle this failure that's a release bundle that's what you can upload to the Google Play store
for Dad you can search for a Google Play console and you need a Google Developer account for that which
all the costs you money.
But unlike Apple's program it's not a subscription it's a one time fee of twenty five dollars and here
in the Google Play console you can now create a new application once you're locked in with your paid
account choose an app name like this created and then here you can manage your entire store appearance
or entire app how it looks like an android app releases
there you can click on production track product production manage create a release their and now here
you need to upload your app online you can click continue here with the default settings normally but
in general I would recommend that you dive into the Google Play store where a Google Play console documentation
to learn all about the things you can set up here but in the end this is now where you can upload the
bundle which you built.
So here you would upload this bundle file and thereafter you can finish up your store appearance and
you can publish your app in the Google Play store as well.
Now of course you might wonder how do you add icons and so on because I haven't touched on this yet
a convenient and easy way of doing that is with the help of Android Studio.
There you can open an existing Android Studio project and open your android folder in your react native
project here with Android Studio just the Android folder not the entire rack native project in there
you'll find your android part of this project and here to add icons you can go to the app folder source
main rest and there.
Wait for this initialization the build to finish which starts up when you opens this and once this initialization
is done in that app folder if you click on the rest folder right click on it you can select new and
their image asset and this opens an editor where you can conveniently add and generate new image assets
you icons for example there you can choose launch or icons adaptive in legacy.
And now what you can do you can leave the name.
You can setup your I can you can configure it there you can choose a foreground layer and there you
can for example choose the path of an image you want to use a background layer where you can set a solid
color or all the image you want that you want to use in the background and then therefore generate your
icon with that tool simply click finish and of course provide your own image there if you want to and
it will set everything up for you to have a nice icon which of course is pretty sweet now regarding
how to customize the splash screen attached you find some documentation on how you may do this on Android
you set your own splash screen of course whenever you change your icons and or your splash screen you
will need to rerun this build with that great LW command and then also redeploy your new app bundle
to the Google Play store with the Google Play console and with that this is how you would build and
deploy react native only apps of course a bit more manual work a bit more cumbersome than in the Expo
manager workflow but now you know both options and you can go for with the ever approach you need for
your application.